Editorial Changes for WGLC (#366)
ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture: draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.md

  RFC5280: PKIX
  RFC6838:
  RFC8610: CDDL

>   STD94:

Reviewer: @henkbirkholz what is this format? Just curious why this was changed, and should we do it consistently?

Reviewer 2: I was also not aware of this, and in case someone else is wondering, the full list can be found at https://www.rfc-editor.org/standards#IS

# Introduction

## NEW

> This document defines an architecture, message flows, and a base set of extensible message structures to make signed data items transparent via verifiable data structures that are maintained by corresponding transparency services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document defines an architecture, a base set of extensible message structures and associated flows to make signed data items transparent via verifiable data structures maintained by corresponding transparency services.
```
Seems slightly more logical to introduce the messages first and the flows next.

The goal of the transparency enabled by the Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT) architecture is to enhance auditability and accountability for signed data items (statements) that are about supply chain commodities (artifacts).

> Registering signed statements at a transparency service is akin to a notarization procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Registering signed statements with a transparency service is akin to a notarization procedure.
```
Feels more natural, but I am not sure, and a review from a native speaker would be ideal :)

Transparency services therefore act like notaries that record (register) that statements were made, irrevocably.
How these statements are managed or stored---beside the specified registration procedure---is out-of-scope of this document.

> Earlier, similar approaches exist, such as Certificate Transparency {{-CT}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Earlier, similar approaches for specific classes of artifacts exist, such as Certificate Transparency {{-CT}}.
```

> The SCITT approach follows a more generic paradigm then previous approaches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SCITT approach follows a more generic paradigm than previous approaches.
```

> In this SCITT core architecture, the signed statements registered are opaque to the transparency services that act as a notary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In its core architecture, signed statements are opaque to the transparency services that act as notaries.
```

Author: Ah. I prefer to repeat the subject to make reference to previous sentences more unambiguous, but I can live with one "it".

> In this SCITT core architecture, the signed statements registered are opaque to the transparency services that acts as a notary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this SCITT core architecture, the signed statements registered are opaque to the transparency services that act as a notary.
```

> This "content agnostic" approach allows SCITT transparency services to be integrated in any kind of existing solution or to be an initial part of new emerging systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This "content-agnostic" approach allows SCITT transparency services to be either integrated in existing solutions or to be an initial part of new emerging systems.
```

> Extensibility is a vital feature of the SCITT architecture, so that requirements from various applications can be accomodated while always assuring interoperability with respect to registration procedures and corresponding auditability and accountability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extensibility is a vital feature of the SCITT architecture, so that requirements from various applications can be accommodated while always ensuring interoperability with respect to registration procedures and corresponding auditability and accountability.
```

# Introduction

> This document defines an architecture, a base set of extensible message structures and associated flows to make signed data items transparent via verifiable data structures maintained by corresponding transparency services.

Reviewer: "data items" feels weird, How about "content", rather than jumping into techno "payloads"

```suggestion
This document defines an architecture, a base set of extensible message structures, and associated flows to make signed content transparent via verifiable data structures maintained by corresponding transparency services.
```

Reviewer 3: I'd prefer data items or payloads over content. Content vague, and this is a technical specification.

Reviewer 2: Signed records? They all seem fine to me.

Reviewer: Content is intentional to be vauge (generic), as SCITT/COSE can sign anything. "Data Items", sounds like records in a database, or something more a specific tech. Content can be anything from documents, images, numbers, ...

Reviewer 2: Content seems fine to me too, HTTP is happy enough with Content-Type :)

Reviewer 4: if you only register signatures, you are only making signatures transparent... not the content that is signed.

> The goal of the transparency enabled by the Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT) architecture is to enhance auditability and accountability for signed data items (statements) that are about supply chain commodities (artifacts).

Author: same as above

Registering signed statements with a transparency service is akin to a notarization procedure.

> Transparency services therefore act like notaries that each record (register) a single, linear and irrevocable history of statements that were made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transparency services perform notary operations, confirming a policy is met before recording the statement on the ledger.
One the signed statement is registered, the notary issues a receipt, signed by the transparency service, just as a notary stamps the document being notarized.```

Reviewer 2: Do we want ledger here this early? Single, linear and irrevocable history seemed more descriptive and introductory. Agree it's good to mention the policy check though.

Reviewer: It's a good question on balance. In this case, I was using Ledger, as it applies to a notary, as it's a mappable concept. I didn't directly mean to remove "linear and irrevocable history of statements that were made.", rather I couldn't find a good way to stitch it in. 
Please look at the updated suggestion.

Reviewer 2: New version looks good to me!

> How these statements are managed or stored---beside the specified registration procedure---is out-of-scope of this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How these statements are managed or stored, besides the specified registration procedure, is out of the scope of this document.
```

> Earlier, similar approaches for specific classes of artifacts exist, such as Certificate Transparency {{-CT}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar approaches have been implemented for specific classes of artifacts, such as Certificate Transparency {{-CT}}.
```

The SCITT approach follows a more generic paradigm than previous approaches.

> In this SCITT core architecture, the signed statements registered are opaque to the transparency services that act as a notary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the SCITT architecture, the signed statements are opaque to the transparency service, just as a notary doesn't evaluate the document being notarized.
```

Reviewer 2: Notaries definitely evaluate at least the authenticity of documents in many situations (for example compare the copy and the original before certifying the copy), so "doesn't evaluate the document" does not feel right to me.

I am not sure taking the comparison further than a loose parallel is very helpful for clarity.

Reviewer: We can choose to not apply this one if it creates debate.

Reviewer 2: If this is just me, I am very happy to let it go :)

Reviewer: I don't have a strong opinion on this. I'm just leaving it open until the meeting later today to get others' opinions.

Author: will confirm "nofix" in about 2h

> This "content-agnostic" approach allows SCITT transparency services to be either integrated in existing solutions or to be an initial part of new emerging systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to a notary that isn't specific to a document type, the SCITT Architecture "content-agnostic" approach allows SCITT transparency services to be integrated into existing solutions or an initial part of emerging systems.
```

Reviewer 2: This likely varies across jurisdictions, but where I am from, notaries have a relatively well-defined set of documents they will deal with, and will not accept arbitrary inputs. I think the earlier sentence gave the right idea.

Author: will confirm "nofix" in about 2h

Extensibility is a vital feature of the SCITT architecture, so that requirements from various applications can be accommodated while always ensuring interoperability with respect to registration procedures and corresponding auditability and accountability.
For simplicity, the scope of this document is limited to use cases originating from the software supply chain domain, but the specification defined is applicable to any other type of supply chain statements (also referred to as value-add graphs), for example, statements about hardware supply chains.

> This document also defines message structures for signed statements and defines a profile for COSE receipts {{-RECEIPTS}}, i.e., countersignatures with metadata).

Reviewer: I thought we were avoiding "countersignatures" 🤷‍♂️

Author: I intended to quote Russ, ngl. We do not have to express that here, but this the story why receipts are called receipts in a very concise nutshell.

will check for "needsfixing" in about 2h

> This document also defines message structures for signed statements and defines a profile for COSE receipts {{-RECEIPTS}}, i.e., countersignatures with metadata).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document also defines message structures for signed statements and defines a profile for COSE receipts {{-RECEIPTS}}, i.e., signed Verifiable Data Proofs).
```

These message structures are based on the Concise Binary Object Representation Standard {{-CBOR}} and corresponding signing is facilitated via the CBOR Object Signing and Encryption Standard {{-COSE}}.
The messages structures are defined using the Concise Data Definition Language {{-CDDL}}.
In essence, the signatures of signed statements and receipts are based on the COSE_Sign1 specification in {{Section 4.2 of -COSE}}.
As these messages provide the foundation of any transparency service implementation for global and cross-domain application interoperability, they are based on complementary COSE specifications, mainly {{-RECEIPTS}}.

> Support of COSE_Sign1 and support for extensibility of COSE Header Parameter sets is therefore a prerequisite for implementing the interoperable message layer that comes with this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, support of COSE_Sign1 and extensibility of COSE Header Parameters are prerequisites for implementing the interoperable message layer included in this document.
```

> In summary, this specification is in support of relying parties to obtain proof that signed statements where checked for their validity in the past and that check of validity can itself be checked again after the fact via transparency services as defined in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, this specification supports relying parties obtaining proof that signed statements were recorded and checked for their validity at the time they were registered
The validity can be rechecked after the fact via transparency services as defined in this document.
```

Reviewer 2: +1 on removing the last sentence

Author: agreement to remove line 195 in suggested change

## Requirements Notation

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

> # Software Supply Chain Scope 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Software Supply Chain Scope
```

# Introduction

This document defines an architecture, a base set of extensible message structures, and associated flows to make signed content transparent via verifiable data structures maintained by corresponding transparency services.
The goal of the transparency enabled by the Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust (SCITT) architecture is to enhance auditability and accountability for signed content (statements) that are about supply chain commodities (artifacts).
Registering signed statements with a transparency service is akin to a notarization procedure.
Transparency services perform notary operations, confirming a policy is met before recording the statement on the ledger.
The SCITT ledger represents a linear and irrevocable history of statements that were made.

> Once the signed statement is registered, the notary issues a receipt, signed by the transparency service, just as a notary stamps the document being notarized.```

Author: ```suggestion
Once the signed statement is registered, the notary issues a receipt, signed by the transparency service, just as a notary stamps the document being notarized.
```

How these statements are managed or stored, besides the specified registration procedure, is out of the scope of this document.
Similar approaches have been implemented for specific classes of artifacts, such as Certificate Transparency {{-CT}}.
The SCITT approach follows a more generic paradigm than previous approaches.

> In this SCITT core architecture, the signed statements registered are opaque to the transparency services that act as a notary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transparency services perform notary operations, confirming a policy is met before recording the statement on the ledger.
The SCITT ledger represents a linear and irrevocable history of statements made.
Once the signed statement is registered, the transparency service issues a receipt, just as a notary stamps the document being notarized.
Similar approaches have been implemented for specific classes of artifacts, such as Certificate Transparency {{-CT}}.
The SCITT approach follows a more generic paradigm than previous approaches.
```

# Introduction

> ## NEW

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

These message structures are based on the Concise Binary Object Representation Standard {{-CBOR}} and corresponding signing is facilitated via the CBOR Object Signing and Encryption Standard {{-COSE}}.
The messages structures are defined using the Concise Data Definition Language {{-CDDL}}.
In essence, the signatures of signed statements and receipts are based on the COSE_Sign1 specification in {{Section 4.2 of -COSE}}.
As these messages provide the foundation of any transparency service implementation for global and cross-domain application interoperability, they are based on complementary COSE specifications, mainly {{-RECEIPTS}}.
Support of COSE_Sign1 and support for extensibility of COSE Header Parameter sets is therefore a prerequisite for implementing the interoperable message layer that comes with this document.

In summary, this specification is in support of relying parties to obtain proof that signed statements where checked for their validity in the past and that check of validity can itself be checked again after the fact via transparency services as defined in this document.

> ## OLD

Author: okay
